The Joe Rogan experience. Um, a lot of the film was reenactments as well.
You know, like, uh, when James was sitting there with the knee braces on,
that was not after his surgery. Well.
I, I thought he was vegan in like 2011 or 12 or.
Something when he he's in the film, when they're filming him,
he's sitting there doing his research. Well, don't,
I don't think filmed him while it was happening back.
In 2012 after the injury. I mean,
this is like one of the things that I thought was well done about the film was
that they took someone James on the,
kind of the journey of starting as an omnivore and then, you know, having this,
these realizations and turning into a vegan.
But the problem was that journey happened long before the film was made.
Exactly. Exactly. So that was a little disingenuous. Well.
That's why I'm saying he's sitting there with those knee braces on and he's
going over his research and just happened to have a camera crew there while he
is learning how to heal himself. And I'm like, Hey man,
I know what you're doing.
I don't know. I mean, that's a narrative devices. It's good filmmaking. Well.
Even the rope thing, even the rope thing, I mean,
I'm watching him do the rope thing at the end. Like, whoa, boy, I'm done,
you did an hour, bro. If you did an hour,
you'd be drenched with sweat and you'd be exhausted. You wouldn't, you, you,
they sprayed you or something like, but this is fine.
I believe he really did that. I don't believe he's a liar, but like.
I mean, he, like you said, he's clearly he's theatrical, he's athlete. Yeah.
And ripped and you know, super capable. And this was a,
uh, you know, an agenda driven film.
It was it's meant to persuade and convince people. Well.
That's why it's weird because that's clearly acting,
you're recreating these moments, but it's.
Built as a it's it's marketed as a documentary.
Cuz he's talking about it.
Having just happened right after he switched over to a vegan diet,
all of a sudden he could do an hour on the battle ropes and then they're filming
them. Yeah. I'm like, come on, man.
There's no camera crew when that happened. You're redoing this. Yeah. You think,
I mean, I get it. This is how you show the footage.
You put it out there and it makes it like a little bit better for people able to
swallow and get, you know, and I,
I like the scenes of him doing the self defense demonstrations cuz you get to
see, he truly is a, a fantastic martial artist. He really does know his stuff.
Absolutely. There's a lot of great aspects to that. Like I said,
I like that guy a lot, but there's a lot of fuckery in this movie, man.
So I mean a couple of the most for day things from the movie, um,
we can get to. We can get to. Good take. So slide,
slide 64. Uh, you probably remember this this morning.
This was the guy who's like in Africa.
He was a former special forces sniper I think. Yes.
And he says this whole fantasy, we need to eat meat to get our protein.
It's actually. I mean, look at a gorilla. Gorilla will you up in two seconds.
What does a gorilla eat? Uh, I just do the same things. These big,
great things out here that we're trying to protect elephant and rhino. Yeah.
Well that's just, it's a nonsensical argument. You know what will you up?
Even faster than the gorilla,
a human who has a gun that eats McDonald's and KFCs <laugh> I'm serious.
And what is a gun? It's a tool. How did we develop tools?
Cuz we started eating meat and fish and we came down out the trees and we
weren't spending more than half of our waking hours,
eating leaves and low calorie fruits. You know,
don't like comparing our digestive.
Like what we should eat with a gorilla is just Aine. That's a.
Problem because they, they bring that up all the time.
They say we have the same digestive gut tracked as an
herbivore. That's just not.
True. Also just objectively false. Yes. You know, the, the largest,
the for a gorilla,
the largest volume of adjustive tract is in their large intestine,
which is ideal for breaking down tough foods, you know,
fiber seeds and those kinds of plant foods. Whereas in humans,
the largest volume of our digestive tract is in the small intestine,
which is better for absorbing nutrient dense bioavailable foods like meat and
cooked foods, cooked tubers and things like that. Yes. You know,
gorilla in order to get the amount of protein that gets them strong and rip,
they eat 40 to 60 pounds of food a day and they're eating for more than half
of their waking hours. So it's really, you know,
that's just not comparable at all to compare us to.
We have different jeans.
It's the same thing when they're talking about OXS like strong as an ox. Uh,
there's a MTA issue, right? Yes.
There's the genes are programmed to carry more muscles. So.
Yeah. That's Patrick booming. He, you know, people ask me,
how did you get strong as an ox, without eating meat.
And have you ever seen an ox eating meat? Well, I say,
have you ever seen a human with six different stomach standing in a field
eating, you know, grass for 14 hours a day? <laugh> right. That's ridiculous.
It is ridiculous. It's not ridiculous. It's like I, to me, those, those damage,
the credibility of the movie.
Oh it's just sound bites. That sound cute. Like people go, yeah.
You ever seen an Oxy that eat what a gorilla eats. That's what I do.
I know know, but I.
Mean, I just, I right. It, it, just to me though,
that's like the quality of the argument being made. It, it,
it really does just no.
One there like you to dispute it, that's the problem, you know,
that's why I bring you a board.
<Laugh> I mean, and then there was the anthropologist woman.
You remember that scene in the end where she,
that that's where I really started roll my eyes cuz she was making the arguments
that humans have always followed a plant-based diet. Did you,
do you remember that part silly. Okay. So, um,
or to start with that. So I mean we've got, um,
isotope studies that show that humans have been eating meat for at least two and
a half million years.
And if you go back even before we are really actually human, um,
there's a lot of evidence now that our Chimp and ancestors were also eating
vertebrates.
And one of the biggest shocks for people has been the observation that chimps
hunt and they kill other an monkeys and other animals and eat them.
I mean, it kind of blew apart like this whole idea of primates only being,
um, you know, eating plants. And if that happened, if, if an, if a,
if an animal evolves complex behavior like hunting or tool use in order
to eat certain food, it means that food has a,
a lot of value or else that EV that behavior wouldn't have evolved.
Um, but then we have bone collagen studies. Um,
let me see if I can find this slide, Jamie.
So that's 47 and 48. So these are bone collagen.
Isotope studies are much more accurate than some of the previous methods that
were used and, um, the, the earliest hos study,
but these were neandertals.
So there's three studies that have been done in Neandertal groups ranging from
130,000 to 28,000 years ago.
And then they compared those isotope levels with contemporary species and they
found that neandertals were similar to top level carnivores.
So they all derived the vast majority of their protein from horses likely to be
large herbivores. And then on the next slide, 48, why.
Does it have, hold on a second back up?
Why does it have a te Dal flying in the background?
Why are they bullshitting us?
<laugh> does those things live 60 million years before?
That's so stupid?
You know, there's a limit to what stock photography can.
I know, but all you have to do is snip that aren't out. You.
Why do you have a guy walking on two feet with a piece of meat on a stick?
Good stick of meat. Yeah. That's.
So stupid. And he's obviously not in Neander tall too. The skull.
Is the wrong shape. Yeah. The skulls, the wrong shape, right? Yeah.
So that's double crazy. So that's a homo SAPN, which is only 500,000 years ago.
That's gold stock photo.
Well, let's talk about homo SAPN. So, so there were,
there were go on the next slide. There are two, two, uh,
stable isotope bone collagen studies that have been done with modern humans,
homo sapien sapien.
And the first group was 13,000 years ago in Southern England.
And the second group was 30 to 40,000 years ago on Lockette, which is in France.
And they also found, um, that they were predo, you know, carnivores,
mostly larger herbivores,
but the French group consumed a more diverse mix of protein, including seafood.
So the fossil record clearly clearly indicates that humans were eating,
you know, humans and Neander, you know, homo sapiens and Neanderthals.
All of our Haid ancestors were eating a lot of meats. She.
Wasn't using any evidence to cite this either.
Was she, she was using that lame anatomical argument that we have, you know,
relatively flat molars like herbivores do. And we don't have claws.
We don't have sharp canine teeth. Right. But guess what? We've got forks,
we've got knives and we've got fire, we've got fire to cook our.
Food. Yeah. And we have for a long time.
You have these adaptations that make those anatomical, uh, uh,
characteristics that a lion or, you know, or,
or OUS animal has unnecessary for us. I mean, that's,
that's just like anthropology 1 0 1. Right. So I, I don't. So.
They just found someone who's vegan. Who's also an anthropologist.
One anthropologist. And then they rewrite the whole history of, you know,
animal food consumption among hoed.
Yeah. And the argument that human beings over 2 million years ago,
the doubling of the human brain size corresponds with the, the learning,
how to hunt consumer meat.
Of tool marks on bones corresponded directly with the doubling of brain volume,
the reduction in our gut volume,
which indicates a move to a more nutrient dense diet,
the increase in the volume of our small intestine relative to our large interest
intestine. And then what's called the ization of our jaw,
which means our teeth and jaw became less robust.
And that's thought to be an adaptation to more digestible nutrient dense
bioavailable food where we're not like chewing cut or yes. You know,
chewing on leaves or low calorie fruit, like a gorilla is all.
Day. And this argument about nutrient density, this is why this, that,
that term is very important because people always want to use that for
plant-based food, nutrient dense plant-based foods.
Meat is far more nutrient dense per calorie, per ounce,
poor amino acid profile.
With essential nutrients. Yeah.
So essential meaning nutrients that we can't manufacture on our own and that we,
and that we absolutely need, uh,
organ meats are actually at the top of the list terms, you know,
in terms of nutrient density, organ meats and shellfish take the cake. Um,
then you have herbs and spices are actually pretty high too.
And then you have other, you know, muscle meats, eggs, all of those things,
foods like grains and lagoons are tend to be towards the bottom of the list,
you know, with vegetables and in the middle. Right.
But that sound good. Nutrient dense plant-based foods sounds good.
It sounds like you're doing the right thing.
This is like where this lingo is coming from. I mean, this is.
Where I argue that plants do belong because plants do have certain nutrients,
phytonutrients, um, fibers and things that, that actually don't feed us,
but feed our gut floor that I do think are important, right.
Even though they're not considered essential, like vitamin B12 or vitamin a,
you know, uh, vitamin D or something like that,
I do think they're still important and they play a.
Role.
But what I'm talking about is a difference between caveman altering its diet or
the modern or ancient man altering their diet and this doubling of the human
brain size corresponding with me more nutrient dense foods.
What that means is meat. Yeah, absolutely.
Meat, fish and fish. First,
as we saw with some of the modern humans who are living in coastal regions. Yes.
But these more bio bioavailable, nutrient dense foods. Definitely.
Now what, what other silliness?
So this is the anthropology argument that just doesn't seem to fit and of
the state of the art science doesn't.
Fit. Yeah. It completely contradicts.